Captioning sponsored by
MacNEIL/LEHRER PRODUCTIONS
( SINGING )
>> Woodruff: MOURNING HIS DEATH,
BUT ALSO CELEBRATING HIS LIFE IN
THE STREETS OF SOUTH AFRICA AND
BEYOND.
THE WORLD CONTINUED ITS LOOK
BACK TODAY AT NELSON MANDELA'S
LONG JOURNEY.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
WE FURTHER EXPLORE MANDELA'S
LEGACY.
TONIGHT, HOW SOUTH AFRICA WAS
FOREVER CHANGED BY THE MAN THEY
CALLED "FATHER."
>> TO MANY PEOPLE NELSON
MANDELA DOES REPRESENT THE
KIND OF MORE ALL CENTER AN A
CHOICE TO TURN AWAY FROM
VIOLENCE, TO TURN AWAY FROM
STRIFE.
AND TO TURN AWAY FROM RACIAL
DIVISIONS.
>> Woodruff: BACK IN THE U.S.,
PAUL SOLMAN DIGS INTO TODAY'S
JOBS REPORT, WHICH POINTS TO
STRONG GAINS IN HIRING AND A
FIVE-YEAR LOW IN THE
UNEMPLOYMENT RATE.
AND MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID
BROOKS ARE HERE.
THEY REFLECT ON MANDELA'S LIFE
AND THE REST OF THE WEEK'S NEWS.
THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF THE
STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S "PBS NEWSHOUR."
>> Woodruff: THE DEATH OF NELSON
MANDELA RESONATED ACROSS SOUTH
AFRICA AND AROUND THE WORLD
TODAY.
MILLIONS MOURNED THE FORMER
PRESIDENT AND SYMBOL OF RACIAL
RECONCILIATION AND OFFICIALS
PLANNED A MASS MEMORIAL SERVICE
ON TUESDAY.
WE BEGIN OUR COVERAGE WITH ROHIT
KACHROO OF "INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS" REPORTING FROM
SOUTH AFRICA.
RTED THIS WAS A DAY TO MOURN
ONE LIFE LOST, AND A DAY TO
MARK THE MANY LIVES MADE BY
NELSON MANDELA.
THE GIFT OF FREEDOM IS BEING
CELEBRATEDDED HERE.
AND EVEN THOSE LOST IN THE
SADNESS OF HIS DEATH KNOW
HOW MUCH BLEAKER THINGS
MIGHT HAVE BEEN.
>> I'M VERY, VERY SAD, BUT
TODAY I'M SAD AND I DON'T
KNOW WHAT CAN I SAY.
>> FROM HIS HOME LAST NIGHT,
HIS COFFIN WAS BROUGHT AWAY
DRAPED IN THE RAINBOW
COLORS.
HIS PAIN IS OVER.
BUT THE HURT IS NOW ALL
THEIRS.
YET THROUGH ALL THE BLURRY
EYES AND BROKEN HEARTS, THIS
NATION WAS TO THE BROKEN.
AS THE OLD SONGS OF THE
STRUGGLE FROM SUNG, THROUGH
THE NIGHT.
AND THE NEW DAY BROUGHT THE
START OF SOUTH AFRICA'S
FUTURE.
>> THE SUN WILL RISE
TOMORROW.
AND THE NEXT DAY, AND THE
NEXT.
IT MAY NOT APPEAR AS BRIGHT
AS YESTERDAY, BUT LIFE WILL
CARRY ON.
>> Reporter: THE MAN WHO
FREED NELSON MANDELA, THE
LAST APARTHEID PRESIDENT OF
SOUTH AFRICA SPOKE TODAY OF
THE POLITICAL ENEMY WHO
BECAME A FRIEND.
>> HE WAS A GREAT MAN.
HE WAS A VERY SPECIAL MAN.
I THINK HIS GREATEST LEGACY
TO SOUTH AFRICA AND TO THE
WORLD IS THE EMPHASIS WHICH
HE HAS ALWAYS PUT ON THE
NEED FOR RECONCILIATION.
>> Reporter: MANDELA'S
CONDITION HAD WORSENED OVER
HIS FINAL FEW DAYS.
THIS WAS HIS LAST APPEARANCE
IN PUBLIC, CONFUSED, FRAIL
AND FADING.
HIS STAIR BROKEN ONLY BY THE
FLASH OF A CAMERA.
THIS AFTERNOON PRESIDENT
ZUMA WENT TO COMFORT THE
MANDELA FAMILY AND TO
FINALIZE PLANS FOR HIS STATE
FUNERAL.
>> WE'LL SPEND THE WEEK
MOURNING HIS PASSING.
WE'LL ALSO SPEND IT
CELEBRATING A LIFE WELL
LIVED, A LIFE THAT WE MUST
ALL EMULATE.
>> NELSON MANDELA WILL NOW
LIE IN STATE.
NEXT WEEK AT PRETORIA'S
UNION BUILDINGS.
ONCE A BASTION OF WHITE
RULE.
HERE 19 YEARS AGO HE WAS
SWORN IN AS PRESIDENT AND
THE RAINBOW NATION WAS BORN.
>> NEVER, NEVER AGAIN SHALL
IT BE THAT THIS BEAUTIFUL
LAND WILL AGAIN EXPERIENCE
THE OPPRESSION OF ONE OVER
ANOTHER.
>> Reporter: IT WAS FROM
THIS BUILDING SOUTH AFRICA'S
SEATOF  GOVERNMENT THAT HE
HELPED TO STEER HIS COUNTRY
AWAY FROM CIVIL WAR.
>-- N> ATION BUILDING AND
RECONCILIATION IN THIS
COUNTRY.
IT IS NOT SOMETHINGTHA T CAN
BE DONE BY OTHERS.
IT IS SOMETHING IN WHICH I
SHALL TAKE A LEAD.
AND THEREFORE I HAVE TO
SUPPRESS MY FEELINGS.
>> Reporter: BUT THE MAN THE
WORLD MOST REVERES WANTED TO
BE BURIED FAR FROM THE
CAPITOL CITY IN THE VILLAGE
HE CALLED HIS HOME, EVEN
WHEN POLITICS BECAME HIS
LIFE.
BORN IN THE BRITISH EMPIRE,
HE WILL BE BURIED IN A
DISTANT CORNER OF A COUNTRY
THAT IS IN EVERY SENSE HIS.
THE MAN WHO MADE THE MIRACLE
OF MODERN SOUTH AFRICA, WHO
BROUGHT A NATION WITH HIM ON
HIS LONG WALK TO FREEDOM.
THOUGH THE WORLD NOW MOURNS
AND PRESIDENTS WILL VISIT
IT IS ODE SOUTH AFRICANS WHO
GAIN FROM HIS STRUGGLE AND
IN FINDING OUT WHAT THIS
DEMOCRACY LOOKS LIKE WITHOUT
HIM.
>> Woodruff: A SHORT TIME AGO,
I SPOKE WITH LYDIA POLGREEN,
JOHANNESBURG BUREAU CHIEF FOR
THE "NEW YORK TIMES."
LYDIA POLGREEN, THANK YOU
FOR TALKING WITH US.
>> MY PLEASURE, JUDY.
>> Woodruff: HOW ARE SOUTH
AFRICANS REACTING TODAY TO
MANDELA'S DEATH?
ARE THEY ALL BLACK AND WHITE
UNITED IN THEIR VIEW OF HIM?
>> OVERWHELMINGLY I WOULD
SAY YES.
TODAY I WAS OUTSIDE HIS HOME
IN AN UPSCALE SUBURB OF
JOHANNESBURG.
AND THERE WERE NOT JUST
BLACK AND WHITE, THERE WERE,
YOU KNOW, YALMKE AND MUSLIM
KNITTED PRAYER CAPS.
THERE WERE YOUNG AND OLD,
PEOPLE FROM A WHOLE VARIETY
OF WALKS OF LIFE ALL OVER
SOUTH AFRICA.
SO WHAT I'M SEEING IS A REAL
KIND OF COMING TOGETHER OF
THE RAINBOW NATION.
AND WHEN YOU TALK TO PEOPLE,
YOU GET THE SENSE THAT THEY
FEEL VERY GLAD TO HAVE THIS
OPPORTUNITY TO KIND OF
REEMBRACE AND REASSERT THAT
IDENTITY THAT WAS SO STRONG
WHEN NELSON MANDELA FIRST
BECAME PRESIDENT IN 1994.
>> Woodruff: YOU WRITE TODAY
THAT SOUTH AFRICANS WERE
COMING TOGETHER TO MOURN HIS
DEATH IN A WAY THAT YOU SAID
SEEMS INCREASINGLY RARE IN A
NATION CONFRONTING
SIGNIFICANT ECONOMIC
CHALLENGES.
YOU ALSO WROTE ABOUT
POLITICAL CORRUPTION, AND A
SENSE THAT THE NATION IS
EVEN SLIPPING INTO DESPAIR.
WHAT WERE YOU SAYING THERE?
>> WELL, I THINK SOUTH
AFRICA HAS SEEN ENORMOUS
CHALLENGES SINCE 1994.
IT'S A COUNTRY THAT WAS
REBORN WITH TREMENDOUS HOPE
WHEN NELSON MANDELA WAS
ELECTED.
AND I THINK YOU'VE SEEN
QUITE A BIT OF THAT HOPE
WHITTLED AWAY.
IT'S ONE OF THE MOST
UNEQUALED COUNTRY IN THE
WORLD.
CRIME REMAINS AN INDEM I
BELIEVE PROBLEM.
THE EDUCATION SYSTEM IS
RIDDLED WITH PROBLEMS.
AND YOU ALSO SEE THAT THERE
IS AN INCREASING PUBLIC
CORRUPTION.
SO THE CURRENT PRESIDENT HAS
BEEN INVOLVED IN A HUGE
SCANDAL INVOLVING HIS
PRIVATE HOME.
SO PEOPLE LOOK TO NELSON
MANDELA AND THINK THERES
WITH A LEADER.
THERE WAS SOMEONE WITH REAL
INTEGRITY.
SO I THINK THAT THIS IS A
MOMENT FOR PEOPLE TO LOOK
BACK AND REFLECT ON WHERE
THEY'VE COME FROM AND HOW TO
GET BACK ON THE RIGHT PATH.
>> Woodruff: AND ALSO BY
DEFINITION LOSING WHAT I
THINK YOU CALL THE MORAL
CENTER FOR THE COUNTRY.
>> WELL, I THINK FOR MANY
PEOPLE NELSON PAN DELLA DOES
REPRESENT A KIND OF MORAL
CENTER.
AND A CHOICE TO TURN AWAY
FROM VIOLENCE, TO TURN AWAY
FROM STRIFE.
AND TO TURN AWAY FROM RACIAL
DIVISIONS.
AND INSTEAD OF STANDING IN
JUDGEMENT OF ONE ANOTHER, TO
RECONCILE AND TO ADMIT THAT
WE DID TERRIBLE THINGS TO
EACH OTHER.
BUT NOW WE'RE READY TO MOVE
ON.
AND I THINK THAT WAS THE
GREAT GIFT OF NELSON MANDELA.
THAT HE WAS ABLE TO BRING
PEOPLE TOGETHER IN A WAY
THAT MADE THEM FEEL THAT
THEY COULD FORGIVE AND MADE
THEM MOVE ON.
>> Woodruff: LYDIA, ONE
OTHER THING.
YOU WROTE TODAY IN A
PERSONAL WAY ABOUT WHAT HE
MEANT TO YOU IN LIFE AND IN
DEATH.
CAN YOU REFLECT ON THAT?
>> SURE.
MY MOTHER COMES FROM
ETHIOPIA AN MY FATHER IS
AMERICAN.
I SPPBT MOST OF MY CHILDHOOD
IN AFRICA, MOSTLY IN THE
1980s, A TIME WHEN SOUTH
AFRICA WAS A COUNTRY THAT WE
CON EVEN VISIT AS A RESULT
OF THE COMPOSITION OF MY
FAMILY.
AND SO TODAY AS A
CORRESPONDENT IN SOUTH
AFRICA, LIVING FROLY IN A
NONRACIAL COUNTRY WHERE
ANYONE CAN MARRY ANYONE THEY
WANT, WHERE ANYONE CAN LIVE
ANYWHERE THEY WANT, IT'S AN
EXTRAORDINARY FEELING FOR
ME.
PARTICULARLY SINCE I, MYSELF,
AM IN A MULTIRACIAL
RELATIONSHIP.
SO IT'S A REAL
TRANSFORMATION FOR SOUTH
AFRICA.
AND I THINK IT'S A REAL
INSPIRATION TO THE WORLD.
>> Woodruff: LYDIA POLGREEN,
WITH "THE NEW YORK TIMES",
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: WE'LL TALK WITH
SOUTH AFRICANS ABOUT THE MANDELA
LEGACY, A LITTLE LATER IN THE
PROGRAM.
UNEMPLOYMENT IN THE U.S. DIPPED
TO 7% IN NOVEMBER-- THE LOWEST
RATE SINCE 2008.
AND, EMPLOYERS ADDED 203,000
JOBS.
BUT THE NUMBER OF PEOPLE
ACTIVELY LOOKING FOR WORK
REMAINED NEAR A 35-YEAR LOW.
PAUL SOLMAN EXPLORES THE DATA
AND THE DEBATE OVER LONG-TERM
JOBLESS BENEFITS RIGHT AFTER
THIS NEWS SUMMARY.
THE JOBS NUMBERS TOUCHED OFF A
RALLY ON WALL STREET.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED MORE THAN 198 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 16,020, BREAKING A
FIVE-DAY LOSING STREAK.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 29 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 4,062.
FOR THE WEEK, THE DOW LOST JUST
UNDER 0.5%.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 0.1%
SNOW AND FREEZING RAIN FELL FROM
TEXAS UP TO INDIANA TODAY,
POSING AN ICY THREAT ACROSS THE
CENTRAL U.S.
ROADS IN NORTH TEXAS AND
ARKANSAS STARTING ICING OVER
LATE LAST NIGHT AND CONTINUED
TODAY.
AND, SOME PARTS OF THE MIDWEST
WERE FORECAST TO GET SEVERAL
INCHES OF SNOW.
AMERICAN AIRLINES-- WHOSE MAJOR
HUB IS IN DALLAS-- CANCELED
1,000 FLIGHTS BY THIS MORNING.
BRITAIN AND NORTHERN EUROPE
SPENT A SECOND DAY COPING WITH
FLOODING AND OTHER DAMAGE FROM A
POWERFUL STORM.
IT TRIGGERED THE BIGGEST TIDAL
SURGE IN 60 YEARS ON THE EASTERN
ENGLISH COAST.
THE SURGE PULLED CLIFF-TOP HOMES
INTO THE NORTH SEA, AND CAUSED
SEVERE FLOODING IN MANY COASTAL
COMMUNITIES.
IN LONDON, THE RIVER THAMES
BARRIER WAS CLOSED FOR THE
SECOND TIME IN AS MANY DAYS TO
PROTECT AGAINST THE FLOOD.
HEAVY SMOG DESCENDED ON
SHANGHAI, CHINA TODAY-- ONE OF
THE WORST BOUTS OF POLLUTION TO
HIT THE CITY SINCE RECORDS WERE
STARTED LAST DECEMBER.
AUTHORITIES REACTED BY PULLING
30% OF GOVERNMENT VEHICLES OFF
THE ROAD AND BANNING FIREWORKS
AND PUBLIC SPORTING EVENTS.
VISIBILITY WAS DOWN TO JUST 160
FEET IN SOME PLACES, AS PEOPLE
STRUGGLED TO COPE.
>> I HAVE DIFFICULTY IN
BREATHING.
I FEEL UNCOMFORTABLE.
MY THROAT IS ALL FUNNY AFTER
I WENT HOME.
I HATE GOING OUTSIDE.
IT WAS FINE IN THE SUBWAY
BUT THE AIR QUALITY IS
TERRIBLE OUTDOORS.
VISIBLE IS ALSO BAD AND SO
IS MY MOOD.
>> Woodruff: THE DIRTY AIR IS
BEING BLAMED ON COAL BURNING,
CAR EXHAUSTS, FACTORY POLLUTION
AND SHIFTING WEATHER PATTERNS.
THE INTERNATIONAL CHEMICAL
WEAPONS WATCHDOG NOW SAYS ALL OF
SYRIA'S UNFILLED CHEMICAL
MUNITIONS HAVE BEEN DESTROYED.
THE ORGANIZATION FOR THE
PROHIBITION OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS
ANNOUNCED IT HAS VERIFIED THAT
THE ASSAD REGIME DID INDEED
DESTROY THE EMPTY WEAPONS.
IT ALSO CONFIRMED DESTRUCTION OF
BUILDINGS AT PRODUCTION
FACILITIES.
THERE WAS RELATIVE QUIET ACROSS
THE CAPITAL CITY OF THE CENTRAL
AFRICAN REPUBLIC TODAY, AS
HUNDREDS OF FRENCH TROOPS BEGAN
ARRIVING.
A DAY EARLIER, AT LEAST 280
PEOPLE DIED IN HEAVY FIGHTING
BETWEEN CHRISTIAN MILITIAS AND
MUSLIM REBELS.
SOLDIERS REACHED THE CITY THIS
MORNING, WITH THE PERMISSION OF
THE U.N. SECURITY COUNCIL TO USE
FORCE.
THE FRENCH CONTINGENT WILL
EVENTUALLY REACH 1,200.
THE EMBATTLED PRESIDENT OF
UKRAINE-- VIKTOR YANUKOVYCH--
MET TODAY WITH RUSSIAN PRESIDENT
VLADIMIR PUTIN, IN THE FACE OF
ONGOING PROTESTS BACK HOME.
THE DEMONSTRATIONS ERUPTED AFTER
UKRAINE'S LEADERS BACKED AWAY
FROM IMPROVING TIES WITH THE
EUROPEAN UNION.
MOSCOW WANTS UKRAINE TO JOIN A
TRADE BLOC DOMINATED BY RUSSIA,
INSTEAD.
STILL TO COME ON THE "NEWSHOUR":
GOOD JOBS NEWS, BUT NOT FOR THE
LONG-TERM UNEMPLOYED; FAST-FOOD
WORKERS FIG FORHT A LIVING WAGE;
WHAT MANDELA MEANT FOR SOUTH
AFRICA.
PLUS, SHIELDS AND BROOKS.
>> Woodruff: NOW, A PAIR OF
REPORTS FROM THE JOBS FRONT
ABOUT A DIVIDE IN THE U.S.
ECONOMY:
THE LABOR MARKET SEEMS TO BE
GETTING STRONGER ONCE AGAIN.
YET FOR MANY ON THE LOWER END OF
THE INCOME LADDER, THE BIG GAP
IN WAGES IS SPARKING A BUDDING
MOVEMENT.
WE BEGIN WITH ECONOMICS
CORRESPONDENT PAUL SOLMAN ON THE
UNEMPLOYMENT RATE'S DROP TO A
FIV AS
DIFFI
THE STORY IS PART OF PAUL'S
COVERAGE ON MAKING SENSE OF
FINANCIAL NEWS.
>> Reporter: THE LATEST SNAPSHOT
OF THE NATION'S JOBS SITUATION--
SHOWING 203,000 POSITIONS ADDED
IN NOVEMBER, AND A JOBLESS RATE
OF 7%  WAS EVEN ROSIER THAN
ANTICIPATED.
WE ASKED NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY
ECONOMIST BARRY BLUESTONE WHAT
HE MADE OF THE NUMBERS.
>> ON BALANCE THIS WAS A GOOD
REPORT TODAY.
OVER 200,000 PEOPLE ARE BACK TO
WORK.
WE'VE BROUGHT THE UNEMPLOYMENT
RATE DOWN FROM 7.3% TO 7%.
THAT'S ALL GOOD NEWS.
OF COURSE MANY OF THOSE WERE
FEDERAL EMPLOYEES COMING BACK TO
WORK AFTER FURLOUGH, BUT WE HAD
SOME GOOD NEWS ABOUT
MANUFACTURING EMPLOYMENT,
CONSTRUCTION EMPLOYMENT, PRETTY
MUCH ACROSS THE BOARD.
SO IN GENERAL THIS IS GOOD NEWS
PLUS OVER THE LAST SEVERAL
MONTHS WE'VE BEEN SEEING MORE
JOB GROWTH IN THE AREA OF ABOUT
200,000 JOBS A MONTH.
>> Reporter: INDEED, JOB GAINS
WERE BROAD-BASED FROM
MANUFACTURING AND CONSTRUCTION
TO WAREHOUSING AND
TRANSPORTATION TO RETAIL, AS THE
HOLIDAY SHOPPING SEASON KICKED
OFF.
BUT AMIDST THE GOOD NEWS, A
CURIOUSLY STUBBORN FACT, SAYS
BLUESTONE.
>> WE CONTINUE TO SEE INCREDIBLY
HIGH LEVELS OF LONG-TERM
UNEMPLOYMENT.
THESE ARE PEOPLE WHO HAVE BEEN
UNEMPLOYED FOR 27 WEEKS OR MORE.
4.1 MILLION AMERICANS HAVEEEN B
UNEMPLOYED THAT LONG.
AND THAT ISN'T MOVING AT ALL,
IT'S BEEN OVER FOUR MILLION FOR
MONTHS.
SO THESE ARE PEOPLE WHO ARE AT A
POINT WHERE THEY'RE JUST
ESSENTIALLY OUT OF THE ECONOMY
AND OF COURSE HURTING VERY
BADLY.
>> Reporter: THE LONG-TERM
JOBLESS ARE FACING A KEY POLICY
DECISION THIS MONTH.
EMERGENCY UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE
FOR THEM AFTER 26 WEEKS, PUT IN
PLACE DURING THE GREAT
RECESSION, WILL STOP AT THE END
OF THE MONTH, IMMEDIATELY
CUTTING OFF AID TO OVER A
MILLION PEOPLE UNLESS CONGRESS
EXTENDS THE PROGRAM.
THE PRESIDENT HAS CALLED FOR
SUCH AN EXTENSION, WHICH CAN
PROVIDE SEVERAL EXTRA MONTHS OF
AID, BUT REPUBLICANS HAVE NOT
COMMITTED TO IT YET.
BLUESTONE, A LIBERAL, THINKS AN
EXTENSION WOULD MAKE BOTH MORAL
AND ECONOMIC SENSE.
>> WITHOUT THAT UNEMPLOYMENT
BENEFIT DOLLAR COMING INTO THOSE
FAMILIES, EY CTHAN'T SPEND
MONEY.
AND IF THEY CAN'T SPEND MONEY
THE ECONOMY CONTINUES TO SLOWLY
MOVE AHEAD AND THAT KEEPS OUR
UNEMPLOYMENT RATE FOR EVERYBODY
UP AT 7% OR ABOVE.
SO POURING MORE MONEY INTO THE
ECONOMY THROUGH EXTENDED
UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS,
PARTICULARLY FOR FAMILIES WHO
ARE GOING TO SPEND EVERY LAST
DOLLAR, CREATING TREMENDOUS
CONSUMPTION, PUTTING PEOPLE BACK
TO WORK, IS IN SETUP THE OUT THE
HE BEST POLICY WE COULD DO.
WE NEED TO GET MONEY INTO THEIR
>> Reporter: JAMES SHERK, A
LABOR ANALYST AT THE
CONSERVATIVE HERITAGE
FOUNDATION, DISAGREES.
NOT EXTENDING BENEFITS, HE
ARGUES, WOULD NUDGE PEOPLE TO
ACCEPT JOBS THEY MIGHT HAVE
REJECTED, AND THAT IN ITSELF
WOULD LOWER THE OVERALL JOBLESS
RATE.
>> WORKERS UNDERSTANDABLY LOOK
FOR THE JOB THAT'S VERY CLOSE TO
WHAT THEY HAD BEFORE, PEOPLE
DON'T WANT TO HAVE TO MOVE, THEY
DON'T WANT TO HAVE TO LOOK FOR A
JOB IN A NEW INDUSTRY, AND THEY
SURE DON'T WANT TO HAVE TO TAKE
A PAY CUT.
WHEN THOSE BENEFITS DROP DOWN,
THEY BECOME WILLING TO BROADEN
THEIR SEARCH TO JOBS THAT THEY
MIGHT BE MORE LIKELY TO LAND,
EVEN IF THEIR JOB IS NOT CLOSE
TO THEIR IDEAL.
>> Reporter: FOR ITS PART, THE
NONPARTISAN CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET
OFFICE ESTIMATES THAT EXTENDING
EMERGENCY BENEFITS WOULD COST
$25 BILLION, BUT WOULD CREATE
200,000 JOBS NEXT YEAR.
>> Woodruff: AS BAD AS
CIRCUMSTANCES ARE FOR PEOPLE WHO
CAN'T FIND A JOB, THERE IS A
DIFFERENT BUT TANGIBLE CHALLENGE
FOR AMERICANS WHO HAVE WORK, BUT
EARN BARELY ENOUGH TO GET BY.
FOR THEM, AS "NEWSHOUR"
CORRESPONDENT KWAME HOLMAN
REPORTS, THERE IS A BATTLE
PLAYING OUT ACROSS THE COUNTRY
TO WIN A GUARANTEE OF HIGHER
PAY.
>> 'S NITOT FUN TO SURVIVE ON
LOW, LOW, LOW, LOW PAY.
>> Reporter: McDONALD'S
EMPLOYEES GATHERED IN THE
NATION'S CAPITAL ON THURSDAY,
INCLUDING WORKERS FROM THE
FRANCHISE INSIDE THE
SMITHSONIAN'S AIR AND SPACE
MUSEUM WHO STRUCK A SEASONAL
NOTE AS THEY PROCLAIMED THEY'RE
TIRED OF HAVING TO SCRAPE BY.
>> YOU KNOW, YOU SHOULDN'T HAVE
TO RESORT TO THE GOVERNMENT
ASSISTANCE TO LIVE AND TAKE CARE
OF YOUR CHILDREN IF YOU'RE
ELIGIBLE AND ABLE TO WORK.
YOU SHOULD BE ABLE TO GET PAID
FOR WHAT YOU DO AND WHAT YOU'RE
>> MY GRANDKIDS.
I CAN'T NEVER SAY, THEY ASK ME,
NANA, CAN WE GO TO THE STORE?
CAN WE GO TO THE PARK?
YOU KNOW, ANY PLACE LIKE THAT.
I CAN TAKE THEM TO THE PARK BUT
AS FAR AS HAVING MONEY TO SPEND,
I DON'T HAVE IT.
I GOT PAID YESTERDAY.
WEDNESDAY.
AND I'M BROKE ALREADY.
>> Reporter: OVER THE PAST YEAR
THERE'S BEEN A SMALL BUT GROWING
CHORUS OF FAST FOOD WORKERS WHO
HAVE PUSHED TO RAISE THEIR WAGE,
FROM AN AVERAGE OF ABOUT $9 AN
HOUR TO WHAT'S CALLED A "LIVING
WAGE"-- $15 AN HOUR.
THE PROTESTS COME AT THE SAME
YESTERDAY'S STRIKES, PLANNED FOR
100 CITIES,  WERE ORGANIZED BY
THE SERVICE EMPLOYEES
INTERNATIONAL UNION AND A NEW
YORK GROUP PUSHING FOR HIGHER
WAGES, FAST FOOD FORWARD.
FAST FOOD FORWARD ALSO FUNDED A
RECENT STUDY BY THE UNIVERSITY
OF CALIFORNIA AT BERKELEY.
IT FOUND 52% OF FAST FOOD
WORKERS DEPEND ON PUBLIC
PROGRAMS LIKE FOOD STAMPS,
MEDICAID, AND THE EARNED INCOME
TAX CREDIT TO GET BY AT A COST
OF NEARLY $7 BILLION A YEAR TO
TAXPAYERS.
THAT'S COMPARES TO 25% OF THE
OVERALL WORKFORCE WHO  DEPEND ON
SUCH PROGRAMS.
AS WORKERS FROM WENDY'S TO WAL-
MART CALL FOR A LIVING WAGE.
>> HOLD THE BURGERS, HOLD THE
FRIES, WE CAN'T SURVIVE ON
$7.25.
>> Reporter: OTHERS ARE CALLING
ON CONGRESS TO INCREASE THE
FEDERAL MINIMUM WAGE-- NOW $7.25
AN HOUR-- AND LAST RAISED IN
2009.
>> IF YOU WORK HARD, YOU SHOULD
MAKE A DECENT LIVING.
>> Reporter: THAT INCLUDES
PRESIDENT OBAMA, WHO SPOKE
WEDNESDAY ABOUT INEQUALITY AT
THE LEFT-LEANING CENTER FOR
AMERICAN PROGRESS.
>> WE ALL KNOW THE ARGUMENTS
THAT HAVE BEEN USED AGAINST A
HIGHER MINIMUM WAGE.
SOME SAY IT ACTUALLY HURTS LOW-
WAGE WORKERS; BUSINESS WILL BE
LESS LIKELY TO HIRE THEM.
THERE'S NO SOLID EVIDENCE THAT A
HIGHER MINIMUM WAGE COSTS JOBS,
AND RESEARCH SHOWS IT RAISES
INCOMES FOR LOW-WAGE WORKERS AND
BOOSTS SHORT-TERM ECONOMIC
GROWTH.
( APPLAUSE )
>> Reporter: NOT EVERYONE BUYS
THOSE ARGUMENTS.
IN DOWNTOWN WASHINGTON'S FREEDOM
PLAZA, WHERE SKATEBOARDERS TOOK
ADVANTAGE OF UNSEASONAL WARMTH
THIS WEEK, THE HEAD OF THE
CONSERVATIVE "AMERICAN ACTION
FORUM" AND FORMER CONGRESSIONAL
BUDGET OFFICE CHAIR, DOUGLAS
HOLTZ-EAKIN, TOOK ISSUE.
>> I THINK THE PRESIDENT'S
ARGUMENT IS INCOMPLETE AT BEST.
CERTAINLY THE PERSON WHO HAS THE
JOB, THEIR WAGES ARE HIGHER,
THEY'RE BETTER OFF.
BUT, THERE IS EVIDENCE THAT IT'S
HARMING THE PACE OF ECONOMIC
RECOVERY, HIRING GETS SLOWED
DOWN.
IN THE END, EVERYONE MIGHT FIND
A JOB BUT YOU'RE GETTING RID OF
THE LOW-SKILLED JOBS WORKERS
USE, AND THAT'S A PROBLEM.
>> Reporter: A NEW ANALYSIS FROM
THE CONSERVATIVE EMPLOYMENT
POLICIES INSTITUTE MAKES A
SIMILAR CASE AGAINST THE LIVING
WAGE.
IT FINDS THAT A $15 AN HOUR WAGE
WOULD LEAD TO MORE AUTOMATION
AND COST NEARLY HALF A MILLION
LOW-WAGE JOBS IN THE END.
SOME BUSINESSES ALSO HAVE SAID
INCREASED COSTS FROM HIGHER
WAGES WOULD BE PASSED ON TO
CONSUMERS.
THEA LEE, DEPUTY CHIEF OF STAFF
AT THE AFL-CIO, SAYS THE
EVIDENCE DOESN'T BACK THAT UP.
>> THERE'S ACTUALLY BEEN A LOT
OF GREAT NEW ECONOMIC RESEARCH
THAT LOOKS NOT AT THE THEORY OF
RAISING THE MINIMUM WAGE BUT AT
THE FACTS.
AND A LOT OF WHAT IT'S DONE IS
TAKING TWO STATES THAT ARE SIDE
BY SIDE, ONE OF WHICH HAS RAISED
THE MINIMUM WAGE, ANOTHER WHICH
HASN'T AND THEY HAVE NOT FOUND
ANY NEGATIVE EMPLOYMENT EFFECT.
>> Reporter: EVEN BEFORE THE
LATEST CALLS TO RAISE THE
NATIONAL WAGE, THERE WAS ACTION
IN A NUMBER OF STATES AND
LOCALITIES.
THIS WEEK, WASHINGTON D. C.'S
CITY COUNCIL UNANIMOUSLY
APPROVED AN $11.50 CENT MINIMUM
WAGE, WHICH WOULD BE ONE OF THE
HIGHEST IN THE NATION.
IT JOINS TWO NEIGHBORING
COUNTIES IN MARYLAND AND FIVE
OTHER STATES ACTING THIS YEAR.
FOUR MORE STATES TAKE UP WAGE
BILLS NEXT YEAR.
>> AT SOME POINT PEOPLE ARE
WORKING FULL TIME, THEY'RE
WORKING HARDER THAN EVER AND
THEY'RE SICK OF IT.
THEY WANT TO BE ABLE TO WORK
HARD AND GET THE AMERICAN DREAM
AND BE ABLE TO FEED THEIR
FAMILIES AND THAT'S A REASONABLE
THING IN A WEALTHY COUNTRY LIKE
THE UNITED STATES.
>> Reporter: CONSERVATIVE
ECONOMIST HOLTZ-EAKIN SEES THAT
FRUSTRATION.
BUT HE SAYS THE SOLUTION IS MORE
EDUCATION AND AN EXPANSION OF
THE EARNED INCOME TAX CREDIT,
NOT BURDENING COMPANIES.
>> THE DIVIDING LINES BETWEEN
POVERTY ARE NON POVERTY ARE
WORK, IF YOU'RE NOT, IF YOU'RE
WORKING YOU'RE LESS LIKELY TO BE
IN POVERTY.
AND THE DIVIDING LINE BETWEEN
LOW WAGE WORK AND HIGH WAGE WORK
IS SKILLS AND EDUCATION.
THAT'S THE NUMBER ONE THING THEY
CAN DO.
rter: BOTH HOLTZ-EAKIN
AND LEE POINT OUT THAT TODAY'S
LOW-WAGE WORKFORCE IS BOTH OLDER
AND BETTER EDUCATED THAN IT WAS
A FEW DECADES AGO, A FACT THEY
ATTRIBUTE TO THE POOR JOB
MARKET.
>> Woodruff: NOW, ON THE DAY
AFTER HIS DEATH, WHAT NELSON
MANDELA MEANT TO THE PEOPLE OF
SOUTH AFRICA.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS THAT.
THREE SOUTH AFRICANS CURRENTLY
>> Brown: TONIGHT WE HEAR FROM
TEACHING IN THIS COUNTRY:
THREE SOUTH AFRICANS CURRENTLY
PENELOPE ANDREWS IS PRESIDENT
TEACHING IN THIS COUNTRY:
AND DEAN OF THE ALBANY LAW
PENELOPE ANDREWS IS PRESIDENT
SCHOOL.
AND DEAN OF THE ALBANY LAW
MZAMO MANGALISO IS A MANAGEMENT
SCHOOL.
PROFESSOR AT THE UNIVERSITY OF
MZAMO MANGALISO IS A MANAGEMENT
MASSACUSETTS, AMHERST.
PROFESSOR AT THE UNIVERSITY OF
CHARLES VILLA-VICENCIO WAS THE
MASSACUSETTS, AMHERST.
NATIONAL RESEARCH DIRECTOR IN
CHARLES VILLA-VICENCIO WAS THE
THE SOUTH AFRICAN TRUTH AND
NATIONAL RESEARCH DIRECTOR IN
RECONCILIATION COMMISSION.
THE SOUTH AFRICAN TRUTH AND
HE'S A VISITING PROFESSOR AT
RECONCILIATION COMMISSION.
GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY.
HE'S A VISITING PROFESSOR AT
PENELOPE ANDREWS I WANT TO
GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY.
START WITH YOU.
PENELOPE ANDREWS I WANT TO
IF I CAN FRAME IT PERSONALLY
START WITH YOU.
FIRST TELL US WHAT NELSON
IF I CAN FRAME IT PERSONALLY
MANDELA MEANT TO YOU GROWING
FIRST TELL US WHAT NELSON
NEWSPAPER SOUTH AFRICA, HOW
MANDELA MEANT TO YOU GROWING
DID YOU SEE HIM?
NEWSPAPER SOUTH AFRICA, HOW
>> WELL, FOR ME GROWING UP
DID YOU SEE HIM?
IN SOUTH AFRICA, CERTAINLY
>> WELL, FOR ME GROWING UP
NELSON MANDELA WAS A IN MANY
IN SOUTH AFRICA, CERTAINLY
WAYS A MYTHICAL FIGURE.
NELSON MANDELA WAS A IN MANY
BUT HE ALSO BECAME A SIM
WAYS A MYTHICAL FIGURE.
SYMBOL OF WHAT SOUTH AFRICA
BUT HE ALSO BECAME A SIM
WAS TO BECOME.
SYMBOL OF WHAT SOUTH AFRICA
AN MANDELA HAS ALWAYS
WAS TO BECOME.
REPRESENTED FOR ME AS A
AN MANDELA HAS ALWAYS
LAWYER, A PROFOUND
REPRESENTED FOR ME AS A
COMMITMENT TO THE RULE OF
LAWYER, A PROFOUND
LAW, TO CONSTITUTIONALISM
COMMITMENT TO THE RULE OF
AND THE POSSIBILITIES OF LAW
LAW, TO CONSTITUTIONALISM
TO CHANGE PEOPLE'S LIVES.
AND THE POSSIBILITIES OF LAW
AND I THINK HE MEANS THAT TO
TO CHANGE PEOPLE'S LIVES.
ME AS A LAWYER BUT ALSO TO
AND I THINK HE MEANS THAT TO
THE VAST, LARGE NUMBER OF
ME AS A LAWYER BUT ALSO TO
PEOPLE WHO HAVE LOOKED AT
THE VAST, LARGE NUMBER OF
SOUTH AFRICA'S
PEOPLE WHO HAVE LOOKED AT
TRANSMISSION-- TRANSITION AN
SOUTH AFRICA'S
SEEN WHAT THE CONSTITUTION
TRANSMISSION-- TRANSITION AN
HAS BEEN ABLE TO DO, DESPITE
SEEN WHAT THE CONSTITUTION
THE LIMITATIONS BECAUSE OF
HAS BEEN ABLE TO DO, DESPITE
POVERTY AND ECONOMIC
THE LIMITATIONS BECAUSE OF
INEQUALITY THAT STILL
POVERTY AND ECONOMIC
PERSISTS IN THE COUNTRY.
INEQUALITY THAT STILL
>> Brown: MZAMO MAN GAL ISO
PERSISTS IN THE COUNTRY.
LET ME ASK YOU THE SAME
>> Brown: MZAMO MAN GAL ISO
QUESTION, A KIND OF MYTHICAL
LET ME ASK YOU THE SAME
QUESTION BUT ALSO A MAN, A
QUESTION, A KIND OF MYTHICAL
FIGHTER, A POLITICIAN.
QUESTION BUT ALSO A MAN, A
>> YES, IN FACT GROWING UP
FIGHTER, A POLITICIAN.
IN SOUTH AFRICA I'M A
>> YES, IN FACT GROWING UP
PRODUCT OF MINERS AND GREW
IN SOUTH AFRICA I'M A
UP IN THE TOWNSHIPS OF SOUTH
PRODUCT OF MINERS AND GREW
AFRICA, IN A TIME WHEN
UP IN THE TOWNSHIPS OF SOUTH
THINGS WERE REALLY DIRE,
AFRICA, IN A TIME WHEN
MANDELA WAS A SYMBOL OF HOPE
THINGS WERE REALLY DIRE,
FOR US.
MANDELA WAS A SYMBOL OF HOPE
EVEN THOUGH WE HARDLY EVER
FOR US.
SAW HIM.
EVEN THOUGH WE HARDLY EVER
BECAUSE HIS IMAGES WERE
SAW HIM.
BANNED FROM THE COUNTRY.
BECAUSE HIS IMAGES WERE
AND WHEN PEOPLE SPOKE ABOUT
BANNED FROM THE COUNTRY.
HIM, THEY SPOKE IN WHISPERS
AND WHEN PEOPLE SPOKE ABOUT
WHEN WE GREW UP.
HIM, THEY SPOKE IN WHISPERS
BUT YOU KNOW, THROUGH ALL
WHEN WE GREW UP.
THE DARK PERIOD THAT WE'RE
BUT YOU KNOW, THROUGH ALL
GOING THROUGH, WE KNEW THAT
THE DARK PERIOD THAT WE'RE
THERE IS A WHOLE, BECAUSE OF
GOING THROUGH, WE KNEW THAT
THIS MAN WILL STAND FOR
THERE IS A WHOLE, BECAUSE OF
EQUITY, JUSTICE.
THIS MAN WILL STAND FOR
WE'LL SPEAK FOR SOUTH AFRICA
EQUITY, JUSTICE.
AS BELONGING TO ALL WHO LIVE
WE'LL SPEAK FOR SOUTH AFRICA
IN IT.
AS BELONGING TO ALL WHO LIVE
AND SO THAT GAVE US THE
IN IT.
INSPIRATION TO KEEP, YOU
AND SO THAT GAVE US THE
KNOW, TOILING ALONG KNOWING
INSPIRATION TO KEEP, YOU
THAT AT THE END WE MIGHT BE
KNOW, TOILING ALONG KNOWING
REWARDED.
THAT AT THE END WE MIGHT BE
>> Brown: CHARLES VILLA-VICENCIO
REWARDED.
THE POLITICIAN, THE LEADER,
>> Brown: CHARLES VILLA-VICENCIO
AS WE SIT HERE NOW, WHERE
THE POLITICIAN, THE LEADER,
DID HE SUCCEED?
AS WE SIT HERE NOW, WHERE
WHERE HE DID NOT ACHIEVE ALL
DID HE SUCCEED?
THE PEOPLE HOPED FOR?
WHERE HE DID NOT ACHIEVE ALL
>> SO MANY TRIBUTES ARE
THE PEOPLE HOPED FOR?
BEING PAID TO MR. MANDLA AS
>> SO MANY TRIBUTES ARE
A GREAT LEADER, AND THAT HE
BEING PAID TO MR. MANDLA AS
WAS.
A GREAT LEADER, AND THAT HE
HE IS A GREAT LEADER.
WAS.
IN: -- WHAT IS A GREAT
HE IS A GREAT LEADER.
LEADER?
IN: -- WHAT IS A GREAT
IN MY BOCK A LEADER IS
LEADER?
SOMEONE WHO IS ALWAYS A STEP
IN MY BOCK A LEADER IS
AHEAD OF THESE PEOPLE IN
SOMEONE WHO IS ALWAYS A STEP
ORDER TO LEAD.
AHEAD OF THESE PEOPLE IN
BUT NEVER MORE THAN ONE STEP,
ORDER TO LEAD.
IF YOU LIKE, ALWAYS CLOSE
BUT NEVER MORE THAN ONE STEP,
ENOUGH, IN ORDER TO
IF YOU LIKE, ALWAYS CLOSE
UNDERSTAND HIS PEOPLE AND
ENOUGH, IN ORDER TO
FOR HIS PEOPLE TO UNDERSTAND
UNDERSTAND HIS PEOPLE AND
AND FEEL HIM.
FOR HIS PEOPLE TO UNDERSTAND
AND I THINK THAT IS WHERE
AND FEEL HIM.
MANDELA MUST BE ANALYZED.
AND I THINK THAT IS WHERE
HE HAS LEAD IN AN
MANDELA MUST BE ANALYZED.
UNBELIEVABLY, REMARKABLE
HE HAS LEAD IN AN
WAY.
UNBELIEVABLY, REMARKABLE
HE IS THE FATHER OF OUR
WAY.
DEMOCRACY.
HE IS THE FATHER OF OUR
WE HAVEN'T ALWAYS FOLLOWED
DEMOCRACY.
AS WELL AS WE SHOULD HAVE.
WE HAVEN'T ALWAYS FOLLOWED
>> Brown: WELL, THAT'S WHAT
AS WELL AS WE SHOULD HAVE.
I WAS WONDERING NEXT.
>> Brown: WELL, THAT'S WHAT
IN YOUR ROLE IN TRUTH AND
I WAS WONDERING NEXT.
RECONCILIATION, IT AS BEEN A
IN YOUR ROLE IN TRUTH AND
LONG PROCESS FOR YOUR
RECONCILIATION, IT AS BEEN A
COUNTRY.
LONG PROCESS FOR YOUR
>> UH-HUH.
COUNTRY.
>> Brown: WHERE HAS IT
>> UH-HUH.
PICKED UP FROM HIM AND WHERE
>> Brown: WHERE HAS IT
HAS IT NOT?
PICKED UP FROM HIM AND WHERE
>> I THINK THE TRUTH AND
HAS IT NOT?
RECONCILIATION COMMISSION
>> I THINK THE TRUTH AND
APPOINTED BY MR. MANDLA MADE
RECONCILIATION COMMISSION
A HUGE CONTRIBUTION TO THE
APPOINTED BY MR. MANDLA MADE
BEGINNING OF THE PROCESS OF
A HUGE CONTRIBUTION TO THE
SOUTH AFRICANS LEARNING TO
BEGINNING OF THE PROCESS OF
LIVE TOGETHER.
SOUTH AFRICANS LEARNING TO
AND MR. MANDLA'S PRESIDENCY
LIVE TOGETHER.
EPITOMIZED WHERE WE WERE
AND MR. MANDLA'S PRESIDENCY
REACHING FOR.
EPITOMIZED WHERE WE WERE
THERE WERE LIMITATIONS.
REACHING FOR.
THERE ARE LIMITATIONS.
THERE WERE LIMITATIONS.
THERE WERE ALL SORTS OF
THERE ARE LIMITATIONS.
RECOMMENDATIONS MADE BY THE
THERE WERE ALL SORTS OF
TRUTH COMMISSION CONCERNING
RECOMMENDATIONS MADE BY THE
SOCIOECONOMIC RIGHTS.
TRUTH COMMISSION CONCERNING
BRIDGING OF THE GAP BETWEEN
SOCIOECONOMIC RIGHTS.
THE RICH AND THE POOR.
BRIDGING OF THE GAP BETWEEN
WE'VE NOT FOLLOWED UP ON
THE RICH AND THE POOR.
THAT WE GOT LAZY.
WE'VE NOT FOLLOWED UP ON
WE'VE FALLEN BEHIND, IT WAS
THAT WE GOT LAZY.
MR. MANDLA THAT WENT AHEAD.
WE'VE FALLEN BEHIND, IT WAS
>> Brown: PENELOPE ANDREW,
MR. MANDLA THAT WENT AHEAD.
PICK UP ON THAT WE TALKED
>> Brown: PENELOPE ANDREW,
ABOUT THAT AT THE BEGINNING
PICK UP ON THAT WE TALKED
OF THE SHOW AS WELL, JUST
ABOUT THAT AT THE BEGINNING
WITH THE COUNTRY TODAY WITH
OF THE SHOW AS WELL, JUST
CONTINUING PROBLEMS.
WITH THE COUNTRY TODAY WITH
>> I THINK THAT UNLESS THE
CONTINUING PROBLEMS.
COUNTRY ADDRESSES THE
>> I THINK THAT UNLESS THE
QUESTION OF POV ALL THE
COUNTRY ADDRESSES THE
BENEFITS THAT THE TRUTH AND
QUESTION OF POV ALL THE
RECONCILIATION COMMISSION
BENEFITS THAT THE TRUTH AND
MADE POSSIBLE, I THINK IS
RECONCILIATION COMMISSION
LIKELY TO FAIL.
MADE POSSIBLE, I THINK IS
SO I THINK THAT THE TRUTH
LIKELY TO FAIL.
AND RECONCILIATION
SO I THINK THAT THE TRUTH
COMMISSION WAS VERY
AND RECONCILIATION
IMPORTANT BECAUSE IT ALLOWED
COMMISSION WAS VERY
THE COUNTRY TO-- AND INSTEAD
IMPORTANT BECAUSE IT ALLOWED
CENTER ISSUES OF FORGIVENESS
THE COUNTRY TO-- AND INSTEAD
AND RECONCILIATION.
CENTER ISSUES OF FORGIVENESS
AND I THINK THAT NELSON
AND RECONCILIATION.
MANDELA, THE PERSON OF
AND I THINK THAT NELSON
NELSON MANDELA COMMITMENT TO A
MANDELA, THE PERSON OF
REALLY DEMOCRATIC SOUTH
NELSON MANDELA COMMITMENT TO A
AFRICA.
REALLY DEMOCRATIC SOUTH
THAT WOULD BE LOST IF WE
AFRICA.
DON'T ADDRESS THAT
THAT WOULD BE LOST IF WE
FUNDAMENTAL QUESTION ABOUT
DON'T ADDRESS THAT
POVERTY.
FUNDAMENTAL QUESTION ABOUT
BUT I ALSO WANT TO SAY AS A LEA,
POVERTY.
HIS HUMILITY HAS BEEN SUCH
BUT I ALSO WANT TO SAY AS A LEA,
AN EXAMPLE.
HIS HUMILITY HAS BEEN SUCH
AND HIS ABILITY TO TOLERATE
AN EXAMPLE.
THIS VIEWPOINTS THAT ARE
AND HIS ABILITY TO TOLERATE
DIFFERENT FROM HIS.
THIS VIEWPOINTS THAT ARE
HIS ABILITY TO REACH ACROSS
DIFFERENT FROM HIS.
THE AISLE.
HIS ABILITY TO REACH ACROSS
HIS ABILITY TO FORGIVE
THE AISLE.
OTHERS.
HIS ABILITY TO FORGIVE
I THINK IS SUCH AN IMPORTANT
OTHERS.
LESSON FOR US.
I THINK IS SUCH AN IMPORTANT
AN I THINK SOUTH AFRICA
LESSON FOR US.
REALLY NEEDS TO TAKE ON
AN I THINK SOUTH AFRICA
BOARD NOW THE FACT THAT HE
REALLY NEEDS TO TAKE ON
HAS DIED BUT THE VALUES THAT
BOARD NOW THE FACT THAT HE
HE STOOD FOR SHOULD NOT DIE
HAS DIED BUT THE VALUES THAT
WITH HIM.
HE STOOD FOR SHOULD NOT DIE
>> Brown: AND MZAMO
WITH HIM.
MANGALISO, SAY QUESTION TO
>> Brown: AND MZAMO
YOU, THE LEADERSHIP THAT HE
MANGALISO, SAY QUESTION TO
HAD AND WHERE SOUTH AFRICA
YOU, THE LEADERSHIP THAT HE
IS TODAY.
HAD AND WHERE SOUTH AFRICA
>> YEAH, I THINK THAT SOUTH
IS TODAY.
AFRICA IS FORTUNATE IN
>> YEAH, I THINK THAT SOUTH
HAVING HAD A PERSON OF
AFRICA IS FORTUNATE IN
NELSON MANDELA SET THE,
HAVING HAD A PERSON OF
AMPLE OF LEADERSHIP.
NELSON MANDELA SET THE,
HE LEFT US WITH A TEMPLATE
AMPLE OF LEADERSHIP.
OF LEADERSHIP, WHAT A LEADER
HE LEFT US WITH A TEMPLATE
SHOULD BE.
OF LEADERSHIP, WHAT A LEADER
ASPENEE JUST SAID, IF
SHOULD BE.
SOMEONE WHO COMBINES
ASPENEE JUST SAID, IF
HUMILITY ON ONE HAND AND A
SOMEONE WHO COMBINES
RESOLVE, A VERY STRONG
HUMILITY ON ONE HAND AND A
DETERMINATION TO FOLLOW
RESOLVE, A VERY STRONG
THROUGH IN SOME OF THE
DETERMINATION TO FOLLOW
OBJECTIVES AND AIMS THAT HE
THROUGH IN SOME OF THE
SET HIMSELF FOR.
OBJECTIVES AND AIMS THAT HE
SUCH AS RESTORING EQUITY AND
SET HIMSELF FOR.
JUSTICE IN A SOUTH AFRICA
SUCH AS RESTORING EQUITY AND
THAT HAS BEEN TORN BY RACIAL
JUSTICE IN A SOUTH AFRICA
PREJUDICE ALL THESE YEARS.
THAT HAS BEEN TORN BY RACIAL
WITHOUT A LEADER THAT UNITES
PREJUDICE ALL THESE YEARS.
PEOPLE UNDER ONE UMBRELLA.
WITHOUT A LEADER THAT UNITES
SO THAT EACH AND EVERY ONE
PEOPLE UNDER ONE UMBRELLA.
OF THE CITIZENS, WHETHER
SO THAT EACH AND EVERY ONE
THEY BE COLOURED, INDIAN,
OF THE CITIZENS, WHETHER
AFRICAN OR WHITE CAN
THEY BE COLOURED, INDIAN,
IDENTIFY WITH THIS LEADER.
AFRICAN OR WHITE CAN
AND MANDELA IS THAT KIND OF
IDENTIFY WITH THIS LEADER.
PERSON.
AND MANDELA IS THAT KIND OF
AND WHAT HE IS LEFT WITH NOW
PERSON.
IS LEADERSHIP THAT SHOULD
AND WHAT HE IS LEFT WITH NOW
NOW JUMP FORWARD AND IMITATE,
IS LEADERSHIP THAT SHOULD
EVEN IF THERE WERE JUST HALF
NOW JUMP FORWARD AND IMITATE,
AS GOOD AS MANDELA, THEY
EVEN IF THERE WERE JUST HALF
WOULD BE GOOD ENOUGH BECAUSE
AS GOOD AS MANDELA, THEY
HE STOOD HEAD AND SHOULDERS
WOULD BE GOOD ENOUGH BECAUSE
ABOVE ANY OF THE LEADERS WE
HE STOOD HEAD AND SHOULDERS
KNOW.
ABOVE ANY OF THE LEADERS WE
BUT GOING BACK TO SOUTH
KNOW.
AFRICA, THE QUESTION OF
BUT GOING BACK TO SOUTH
POVERTY AND DISPARITY
AFRICA, THE QUESTION OF
BETWEEN THE POOR, THAT IS
POVERTY AND DISPARITY
SOMETHING THAT NEEDS TO BE
BETWEEN THE POOR, THAT IS
ADDRESSED A LITTLE BIT MORE
SOMETHING THAT NEEDS TO BE
SQUARELY.
ADDRESSED A LITTLE BIT MORE
IT'S HOMEWORK THAT MANDELA
SQUARELY.
HAS LEFT FOR SUBSEQUENT
IT'S HOMEWORK THAT MANDELA
LEADERS TO FOLLOW UP ON.
HAS LEFT FOR SUBSEQUENT
AND OF THE CHALLENGE THAT
LEADERS TO FOLLOW UP ON.
STILL REMAIN, THE CHALLING
AND OF THE CHALLENGE THAT
TO MANY OF THE SOUTH AFRICAN
STILL REMAIN, THE CHALLING
LEADERSHIP THAT WE SEE
TO MANY OF THE SOUTH AFRICAN
TODAY.
LEADERSHIP THAT WE SEE
AND WHEN WE LOOK AROUND IN
TODAY.
THE TOWNSHIPS, WE ARE SEEING
AND WHEN WE LOOK AROUND IN
A LOT OF SQUALOR, STILL.
THE TOWNSHIPS, WE ARE SEEING
THE HOUSING SHORTAGE THATS
A LOT OF SQUALOR, STILL.
WITH A BACKLOG DURING THE
THE HOUSING SHORTAGE THATS
DAYS OF APARTHEID, THAT WAS
WITH A BACKLOG DURING THE
PROMISED TO BE DELIVERED AT
DAYS OF APARTHEID, THAT WAS
THE ONSET OF DEMOCRACY, THAT
PROMISED TO BE DELIVERED AT
PROGRAM HAS FAILEN FAR
THE ONSET OF DEMOCRACY, THAT
BEHIND OF THE TARGET.
PROGRAM HAS FAILEN FAR
AND IT'S SOMETHING THAT THE
BEHIND OF THE TARGET.
LEADERSHIP HAS TO BE AWARE
AND IT'S SOMETHING THAT THE
OF.
LEADERSHIP HAS TO BE AWARE
BECAUSE WITHOUT-- ADDRESSING
OF.
THAT, THERE ARE REALLY GOING
BECAUSE WITHOUT-- ADDRESSING
TO BE PROBLEMS IN THE SOUTH
THAT, THERE ARE REALLY GOING
AFRICA OF TOMORROW.
TO BE PROBLEMS IN THE SOUTH
BUT LUCKILY THE FACT THAT WE
AFRICA OF TOMORROW.
HAVE THAT TEMPLATE IN THE
BUT LUCKILY THE FACT THAT WE
PERSON OF NELSON MANDELA, A
HAVE THAT TEMPLATE IN THE
LOT OF PEOPLE ARE ENCOURAGED
PERSON OF NELSON MANDELA, A
TO LOOK TO ETCH OTHER AND
LOT OF PEOPLE ARE ENCOURAGED
EMBRACE EACH OTHER AND LOOK
TO LOOK TO ETCH OTHER AND
AT THE HUMILITY DISPLAYED.
EMBRACE EACH OTHER AND LOOK
AND LOOK AT THE HONESTY AND
AT THE HUMILITY DISPLAYED.
INTEGRITY THAT HE WAS ABLE
AND LOOK AT THE HONESTY AND
TO CARRY HIMSELF.
INTEGRITY THAT HE WAS ABLE
>> CHARLES VILLA-I HAVE
TO CARRY HIMSELF.
CHENSO, YOU SMILED WHEN HE
>> CHARLES VILLA-I HAVE
SAID IF THE LEADERS OF TODAY
CHENSO, YOU SMILED WHEN HE
ARE HALF AS GOOD AS NELSON
SAID IF THE LEADERS OF TODAY
MANDELA.
ARE HALF AS GOOD AS NELSON
THE QUESTION I GUESS, IS
MANDELA.
WHETHER WHAT HE STARTED WILL
THE QUESTION I GUESS, IS
BE FULFILLED.
WHETHER WHAT HE STARTED WILL
AND IS IT AN OPEN QUESTION
BE FULFILLED.
AT THE MOMENT?
AND IS IT AN OPEN QUESTION
>> THAT IS AN OPEN QUESTION.
AT THE MOMENT?
IF WE DO NOT ADDRESS THE
>> THAT IS AN OPEN QUESTION.
ISSUE THAT WE HAVE ALL
IF WE DO NOT ADDRESS THE
RAISED HERE THIS EVENING
ISSUE THAT WE HAVE ALL
CONCERNING POVERTY, IT MAYBE
RAISED HERE THIS EVENING
A CASE OF A REVOLUTION
CONCERNING POVERTY, IT MAYBE
DELAYED.
A CASE OF A REVOLUTION
WE'VE GOT TO ADDRESS THAT.
DELAYED.
UNFORTUNATELY, THE KIND OF
WE'VE GOT TO ADDRESS THAT.
LEADERSHIP WE HAVE AT THE
UNFORTUNATELY, THE KIND OF
MOMENT IN GOVERNMENT IS NOT
LEADERSHIP WE HAVE AT THE
AS STRONG AS IT SHOULD BE.
MOMENT IN GOVERNMENT IS NOT
AND THAT'S WHAT WE'RE
AS STRONG AS IT SHOULD BE.
LOOKING FOR.
AND THAT'S WHAT WE'RE
>> Brown: DO YOU HAVE ANY
LOOKING FOR.
QUESTION, THOUGH, THAT
>> Brown: DO YOU HAVE ANY
ACROSS-THE-BOARD, THE WAY HE
QUESTION, THOUGH, THAT
HAS SEEN, WILL CONTINUE TO
ACROSS-THE-BOARD, THE WAY HE
BE AS THE FATHER.
HAS SEEN, WILL CONTINUE TO
>> I THINK THAT WILL
BE AS THE FATHER.
CONTINUE TO BE HELD UP AS
>> I THINK THAT WILL
THE TEMPLATE, AS THE ICON OF
CONTINUE TO BE HELD UP AS
WHO WE OUGHT TO BE.
THE TEMPLATE, AS THE ICON OF
BUT IT'S A HUGE ASK, A HUGE
WHO WE OUGHT TO BE.
ASK, WHICH WE'VE GOT TO
BUT IT'S A HUGE ASK, A HUGE
RESPOND TO.
ASK, WHICH WE'VE GOT TO
OTHERWISE --
RESPOND TO.
>> BUT I THAT I.
OTHERWISE --
>> Brown: VERY BRIEFLY,
>> BUT I THAT I.
PENNEY ANDREWS.
>> Brown: VERY BRIEFLY,
>> SORRY, I WANTED TO SAY
PENNEY ANDREWS.
THAT SADLY THAT NELSON
>> SORRY, I WANTED TO SAY
MANDELA'S DEATH NOW ALLOWS
THAT SADLY THAT NELSON
TO US GO BACK TO THAT PLACE
MANDELA'S DEATH NOW ALLOWS
IN 1994 WHEN SOUTH AFRICANS
TO US GO BACK TO THAT PLACE
COMMITTED THEMSELVES TO
IN 1994 WHEN SOUTH AFRICANS
DEMOCRACY AND JUSTICE AND
COMMITTED THEMSELVES TO
EQUALITY.
DEMOCRACY AND JUSTICE AND
AND SO MAYBE HIS DEATH
EQUALITY.
REALLY WILL, THE LEADERS OF
AND SO MAYBE HIS DEATH
SOUTH AFRICA HAVE LAGGED
REALLY WILL, THE LEADERS OF
BEHIND AND A HUGE NUMBERS OF
SOUTH AFRICA HAVE LAGGED
PROBLEMS.
BEHIND AND A HUGE NUMBERS OF
BUT MAYBE NOW WE CAN GO BACK
PROBLEMS.
TO THAT PLACE AND GO BACK TO
BUT MAYBE NOW WE CAN GO BACK
THE IDEALISM THAT WAS
TO THAT PLACE AND GO BACK TO
GENERATED BY THE MANDELA
THE IDEALISM THAT WAS
PRESIDENCY RIGHT FROM THE
GENERATED BY THE MANDELA
START.
PRESIDENCY RIGHT FROM THE
>> Brown: ALL RIGHT, PENNY
START.
ANDREWS, MZAMO MANGALLISO,
>> Brown: ALL RIGHT, PENNY
CHARLES VILLA-I HAVE CHENSO,
ANDREWS, MZAMO MANGALLISO,
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
CHARLES VILLA-I HAVE CHENSO,
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Woodruff: AND TO THE ANALYSIS
OF SHIELDS AND BROOKS;
SYNDICATED COLUMNIST MARK
SHIELDS AND "NEW YORK TIMES"
COLUMNIST DAVID BROOKS.
WELL COME, GENTLEMEN.
SO THE WORLD IS AS WE KNOW
MOURNING NELSON MANDELA
SINCE WE LEARNED OF HIS
DEATH, DAVID.
WHAT DO YOU THINK ABOUT WHEN HII
WAS FOREIGN CORRESPONDENT
FOR "THE WALL STREET
JOURNAL" THEN, MOSTLY
COVERING THE SOVIET UNION
BUT TOOK A COUPLE TRIPS TO
SOUTH OF CA WHEN HE CAME OUT
AND LATER WHEN HE WAS
INAUGURATED.
AND IF YOU ASKED ME TO
COMPARE THE TWO SOCIETIES, I
WOULD HAVE SAID THE SOUTH
AFRICA SOCIAL FABRIC WAS
WORSE.
THE CRIME WAS MUCH WORSE
THAN IN THE SOVIET UNION, AS
RUSSIA EMERGED.
THE SENSE OF ETHNIC MENACE.
THERE HAS BEEN A LOT OF TALK
ABOUT THE WHITE AND BLACK
VIOLENCE THERE WAS A
TREMENDOUS VIOLENCE BETWEEN
THE ANC AND CATA RIVAL
MOVEMENT, LACK OF SOCIAL
TRUST.
SO YOU COULD HAVE DRAWN A
VERY NEGATIVE SCENARIO FOR
SOUTH OF CA.
IN FACT, I RONUOUSLY DID SO
IN SOME OF MY REPORTING DOWN
THERE BECAUSE I JUST FELT
BAD SOCIAL FABRIC.
AND IT'S VERY HARD FOR
LEADERS TO COUNTERAGO THAT.
>> Woodruff: EVEN AFTER HE
WAS RELEASED.
>> RIGHT, I WAS INVOLVED IN
RIOT, PEOPLE GETTING KILLED.
IT WAS UGLY.
AND YET I THINK BY FORCE OF
MORAL EXAMPLE H THISES WITH
ONE OF THOSE RARE CASE WHEN
SOMEBODY AT THE TOP OF
SOCIETY REALLY HAS A
CULTURAL EFFECT.
AND LEADS, REALLY AVERTS
WHAT COULD HAVE BEEN QUITE A
DISASTER.
AND THE COUNTRY DID MUCH,
MUCH BETTER IN THE ENSUING
YEARS.
I THINK BECAUSE SHEER MORAL
EXAMPLE.
>> Woodruff: MARK, WHAT
ABOUT YOU?
WHAT DO YOU THINK OF WHEN
YOU THINK OF HIM?
>> WELL,-- SOME LEADERS ARE
RESPECTED, AND FEW LEADERS
ARE LOVED.
NELSON MANDELA IS THAT
UNIQUE FIGURE WHO IS BOTH
LOVED AND RESPECTED,
VIRTUALLY AROUND THE GLOBE.
IT'S A REMARKABLE
ACHIEVEMENT.
AND WHAT I THINK OF IS HE
DESCRIBED RESENTMENT AS THE
POISON WE DRINK HOPING IT
WILL HURT OTHERS.
OR PUNISH OUR ENEMIES.
OR KILL OUR ENEMIES.
AND I MEAN THE EXAMPLE OF
MAGAZINE NAM IMITY, OF
LARGENESS IN SPIRIT AND
PERSPECTIVE, PET-- I NEVER
DID MEET HIM, BUT PET ARE
HART THE POLLSTER HAS THAT
QUESTION HE ASKS OF
WASHINGTON PEOPLE WHEN HE
RUNS THEM, CONVERSATIONAL
ICEBREAKER, THE PROSPECT OF
MEETING WHAT INDIVIDUAL IN
THE WORLD WOULD MAKE YOUR
PALMS TURN SWEATY.
AND YOU KNOW THIS IS A PLACE
WHERE WE MEET, YOU KNOW,
CELEBRITIES AND SENATORS AND
ALL OF IT, AND GET A LITTLE
BLASSE.
AND PETER SAID
OVERWHELMINGLY THE ANSWER
WAS NELSON PAN DELLA.
IT WAS JUST UNIVERSAL.
IT IS A SINGULAR ACHIEVEMENT.
HE MADE HIS NATION AND HE
GAVE US ALL AN EXAMPLE OF
MORAL.
>> Woodruff: SINGULAR
ACHIEVEMENT, DAVID, BUT
THERE ARE SO MANY OTHER
PLACES IN THE WORLD THAT ARE
STILL HAVING PROBLEMMED
LEADERS IN THE CONTINENT OF
SOT AFRICA WHO DON'T WANT TO
GIVE UP POWER AS HE DID.
WAS HE JUST A ONE-TIME
EXAMPLE OF SHINING GOOD SNNS.
>> WELL, HE WAS THAT.
I DON'T KNOW HOW THE
IMPRISONMENT AFFECTED HIM.
IT DOESN'T ALWAYS AFFECT YOU
IN THE A GOOD WAY, AGING
DOESN'T ALWAYS AGE YOU IN A
GOOD WAYNESS MY FAVORITE IS
SELF--- IN THE CONTEXT OF
OTHER --
>> MEANING YOUR LIFE IS
DEVOTED TO SOMETHING ELSE.
AND IN THAT CONTEXT OF LIFE
DEVOTEDTO  A MOVEMENT OR YOU ACE
SELF-UNDERSTANDING AND HE
EXUDED THAT.
I THINK THAT WAS THE CENTER
AROUND WHICH HE RULED IT WAS
ALSO THE CASE IN THAT TIME
THERES WITH A WORLD
HISTORICAL FIGURES THAT CAME
ON THE SCENE AT THE SAME
TIME.
SO POPE JOHN PAUL II, RONALD
REAGAN, MARGARET THATCHER,
PROBABLY ALEXANDER-- MANDELA,
SOME WITHOUT SAY GORBACHEV,
WORLD HISTORICAL FIGURES
WOULD HAVE GIGANTIC EFFECTS,
BIG LEADERS ALL CAME ON THE
SCENE AT THE SAME TIME, I
WOULD SAY FORTUITOUSLY.
AND SO WE HAD A REASONABLY
NOT BAD DECADE BECAUSE THERE
WERE SOME REALLY GREAT
LEADERS, JOINA WAS
TRANSFORMED.
SOUTHAFTER CAME PROVED.
ECONOMIES IN THE U.S. AND
U.K. IMPROVED.
AND THOSE WERE, YOU KNOW,
BIG LEADERS.
>> Woodruff: BUT MAYBE IT
WASN'T MONT TO LAST.
>> MAYBE IT WASN'T MEANT TO
LAST BUT JUST ONE POLITICAL
HISTORICAL NOTE.
THE UNITED STATES UNDER
RONALD REAGAN'S LEADERSHIP
WAS OF NO HELP.
NO HELP.
RONALD REAGAN HAD A BLIND
SPOT.
HE SAW THE WORLD THROUGH THE
NARROW TUNNEL PRISM OF
ANTI-COMMUNISM.
AND WHEN THE UNITED STATES
JUST OUTRAGED BY APARTHEID
AND WHERE THE MAJORITY OF
THE REPUBLICAN SENATE PASSED
SANCTIONS, RONALD REAGAN
VETOED THEM AGAINST THE
APARTHEID REGIME.
AND HIS VETO WAS OVERRIDDEN
IN THE SENATE AND IN THE
HOUSE, OVERWHELMINGLY, WITH,
I MEAN PEOPLE LIKE JOHN
WARNER, DANA, JOHN
STENNIS, LOCK TIME
DEMOCRATIC SEGREGATIONIST
FROM MISSISSIPPI.
ALL VOTING TO OVERTURN.
AND IT WAS REALLY A TIME OF
MORAL OBTUSENESS ON THE PART
OF THE LEADERSHIP.
>> MARK'S ABSOLUTELY RIGHT
ABOUT THAT.
AND IT WAS A BLIND-- A BLACK
MARK ON THE REAGAN
ADMINISTRATION.
I WAS IN SOUTH AFRICA I USED
TO ASK PEOPLE, HOW MUCH DO
THE SANCTIONS REALLY HURT.
AND THE COMMON ANSWERS WAS
THE SPORTS SANCTIONS REALLY
HURT.
IT'S A SPORTS CRAZY COUNTRY.
AND THEIR TEAMS COULDN'T
PLAY ABROAD AND THAT WAS A
MORAL INSULT THAT WE'RE NOT
WORTHY TO PLAY ABROAD.
SECONDLY I WANT TO SAY ABOUT
AFRICA TODAY T HAS BECOME A
GOOD NEWS STORY.
THE GOVERNANCE IN AFRICA
AMONG MANY COUNTRIES IN THE
REGION IS GOOD NEWS.
AND YOU'RE SEEING FIVE OUT
OF SIX FASTEST GROWING
ECONOMIES ARE IN AFRICA.
SO I DON'T KNOW IF YOU CAN
DESCRIBE IT TO MANDELA
BUT-- ASCRIBE IT TO MANDELA
BUT A LOT OF COUNTRIES WHERE
WE ARE SEEING
UNPRECEDENTEDLY DECENT
GOVERNMENT AND ECONOMY AND
IMPROVING.
>> Woodruff: YOU BROUGHT UP
THE ECONOMY, LET'S BRING IT
BACK HOME.
JOBS NUMBERS OUT TODAY.
GOOD JOBS NUMBERS.
OVER 200,000 JOBS, MARK,
CREATED.
BUT AS PAUL SOLMAN REPORTED
THE NUMBER OF PEOPLE WHO
HAVE GIVEN UP LOOKING FOR A
JOB STILL REALLY, REALLY
HIGH, FOUR MILLION AND UP.
AGE THEN THE PRESIDENT GIVES
A SPEECH THIS WEEK AND SAYS
ECONOMIC INEQUALITY IS GOING
TO BE THE MAIN FOCUS OF THIS
ADMINISTRATION.
HOW DO YOU READ WHAT HE'S
SAYING.
>> I THOUGHT IT WAS THE BEST
SPEECH, CERTAINLY IN THE
ECONOMY.
I'VE HEARD PRESIDENT OBAMA
GIVE.
I THOUGHT IT WAS A STRONG
AND PERSUASIVE CASE.
I THINK THE FACTS ARE THERE.
THERE CAN BE NO DOUBT ABOUT
T BETWEEN 1979 AND 2007,
13.5% OF THIS NATION'S TOTAL
INCOME WAS TRANSFERRED TO
THE TOP 1%.
THAT'S IS-- 1.1 INDUSTRIAL
TO THE TOP 1% OF FAMILIES.
JUST IN THAT PERIOD OF TIME.
AND IT'S NOT JUST AN
ACCIDENT.
I MEAN YES, GLOBALIZATION
HAS CONTRIBUTED TO IT BUT WE
HAVE TRADE POLICIES.
WE HAVE ECONOMIC POLICIES.
WE HAVE TAX POLICIES.
ALL OF WHICH HAS CONTRIBUTED
TO, AND WORKERS POLICIES,
UNION POLICIES, LABOR
POLICIES.
ALL OF WHICH HAVE BEEN
DIRECTED TO CHANNELS FOR
HELPING THOSE AT THE VERY
TOP.
AND THERE'S NO QUESTION
ABOUT IT.
IT'S WORKED.
>> GO AHEAD.
>> AND WE'RE GOING TO PICK
UP ON THAT IN JUST A
MINUTEMENT BUT WE ARE GOING
TO TAKE A SHORT BREAK RIGHT
NOW.
PICK UP ON THIS AND LET
DAVID HAVE A CHANCE TO WEIGH
IN.
BUT RIGHT NOW WE ARE GOING
TO TAKE A SHORT BREAK TO
ALLOW YOUR PUBLIC TELEVISION
STATION TO ASK FOR YOUR
SUPPORT.
AND THAT SUPPORT HELPS KEEP
PROGRAMS LIKE OURS ON THE
R.AIBACK NOW
WITH MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID
BROOKS.
ALL RIGHT, WHERE WERE WE?
WE WERE TALKING ABOUT INCOME
INEQUALITY.
MARK WAS, I ASKED BOTH OF
YOU ABOUT THE PRESIDENT
SAYING THIS WEEK HE WANTS TO
DEVOTE THE REST OF HIS TIME
IN OFFICE TO TRYING TO DO
SOMETHING ABOUT INCOME
INEQUALITY IN THIS COUNTRY.
>> WELL, IT'S ONE OF THE BIG
MAJOR ISSUES, SO THAT'S A
GOOD IDEA.
I AGREE WITH MARK I THOUGHT
IT WAS AN EXCELLENT SPEECH.
IT WAS A LITTLE LACKING IN
AGENDA ITEMS, REALISTICALLY,
BECAUSE THERE IS NOT THAT
MUCH THAT IS GOING TO BE
PASSED.
BUT THERE WAS AN INTERESTING
ILLUSION THAT DIVOIDED-TO-SIDES
OF A DEBATE.
THEY MUST HAVE BEEN VERY
CONSCIOUS OF THIS THE WAY
THEY STRUCTURED THE SPEECH.
THEY USED THE PHRASE INCOME
INEQUALITY AND SOCIAL
MOBILITY CONSTANTLY
TOGETHER.
AND OF COURSE THEY ARE
RELATED PROBLEMS.
BUT SOMETIMES THEY POINT IN
DIFFERENT POLICY RESPONSE
DIRECTIONS.
AND SO IF YOUR MAIN PROBLEM
IS INCOME INEQUALITY, THEN
YOU'RE GOING TO WANT TO
FOCUS ON MAYBE THE TOP 1% OR
TOP 5% AND YOU'RE GOING WANT
TO HAVE TAX POLICIES, HEALTH
CARE POLICIES THAT ARE ABOUT
REDISTRIBUTION.
IN YOU ARE ON SOCIAL
MOBILITY, WILL YOU PROBABLY
SEE HUMAN CAPITAL PROBLEM
AND WILL YOU FOCUS ON EARLY
CHILDHOOD EDUCATION WHICH
THE PRESIDENT DOES, COLLEGE
LOAN, MAYBE SOME FAMILY
STRUCTURE ISSUES.
AND SO YOU DON'T HAVE TO
CHOOSE TOTALLY A AND B BUT
YOU PROBABLY HAVE TO PICK A
PRIORITY.
THERE IS A VERY INTERESTING
DEBATE ABOUT WHICH PATH IS
THE MORE APPROPRIATE PATH TO
TAKE.
I PERSONALLY TAKE THE SOCIAL
MOBILITY PATH LIFTING MORE
UP FROM THE BOTTOM.
NOT WORRIES ABOUT
REDISTRIBUTION BUT THE
PRESIDENT SORT OF FUZZED
OVER THOSE CHOICES.
>> DO YOU THINK THAT THE
WHITE HOUSE HASN'T DECIDE
WHICH WAY THEY'RE GOING TO
GO, MARK.
>> I THINK DAVID MAKES A
GOOD POINT.
I JUST DON'T THINK THE TWO
ARE INCONSISTENT OR
INCOMPATIBLE.
WE HAVE HAD A POLICY WHICH
HAS BEEN UPWARD INCOME
REDISTRIBUTION.
I MEAN, WE PRIVATIZED
PROFITS FOR THE
CORPORATIONS.
AND COMPANIES.
AND WE SOCIALIZED LOSSES.
I MEAN THE PUBLIC PICKED UP
WHEN WE HAD-- I MEAN WHEN
173 BILLION DOLLARS WENT TO
AIG, AMERICAN INSURANCE
GROUP AND THEY THEN TURNED
AROUND AND GAVE 165 MILLION
IN BONUSES, THE IDEA THAT
SOMEHOW HELPING PEOPLE
REDIRECTING PART OF THAT
NATIONAL WEALTH TO HELP
THOSE MOST NEEDING SOCIAL
MOBILITY AND DAVID'S WRITE,
IT DOES REQUIRE AN
EXPENDITURE, AND IT REQUIRES
A COMMITMENT, THE PRESIDENT
DID THE FIRST THINGS THAT'S
IMPORTANT IN THIS AND THAT
IS TO INTRODUCE THE DEBATE.
WE'RE TO THE GOING TO GET TO
ANY DECISION UNTIL YOU PUT
SOMETHING ON THE NATIONAL
AGENDA.
AND I THINK THIS WAS VERY
IMPORTANT.
AND QUITE HONESTLY THE
REPUBLICANS IN ALL DUE
RESPECT IT'S EXACTLY THE WAY
THEY ARE IN MEDICAL CARE.
THE REPEAL THAT THERE IS NO
REPLACE.
AND I THINK PAUL RYAN AND
RAND PAUL ARE AWARE OF THIS
IN 2016, CANDIDATES
POTENTIALLY ARE ADDRESSING
THE SUBJECT OF POVERTY.
AND RECOGNIZING THAT PARTIES
IDEA THEN IS PRETTY BARRON
RIGHT NOW.
MY QUESTION IS THIS JUST A
SPEECH OR DO WE SEE SOME
SIGN THAT THERE IS GOING TO
BE AN ATTEMPT TO DO
SOMETHING.
BY THE WAY REPUBLICANS ARE
SAYING THIS IS AN ATTEMPT TO
DISTRACT FROM OBAMACARE.
>> IT IS A LONG-TERM
INTEREST OF HIS.
THE ONE-- TO PUT AN IDEA ON
AT AGAINA IS USUALLY WHAT A
PRESIDENT DOES IN THE 8th
YEAR OF HIS PRESIDENCY, NOT
IN WHAT ARE WE, THE 6th OR
SOMETHING, 5th.
SO HE SHOULD STILL BE FOCUS
ON THINGS ABOUT WHICH HE HAS
ACTUAL ACTION ITEMS.
RATHER THAN JUST PUTTING
SOMETHING ON THE AGENDA.
DO THAT LATER IN THE TERM
BUT BECAUSE OF THE
STAGNATION IN WASHINGTON AND
IN CONGRESS, I THINK HE'S
DECIDED TO JUST BE A MORE
RHETORICAL PRESIDENT.
JUST ON THE ONE POINT ABOUT
THE INCOME INEQUALITY.
IF ARE YOU TALKING ABOUT THE
TOP 1%, I AGREE WITH MARK,
THERE HAS BEEN THIS
RIDICULOUS INCREASE IN WAGES,
RIDICULOUS COMPENSATION
CRN WALL STREET, A
LOT OF THE SOCIALIZATION OF
PROFIT.
PRIVATIZATION OF PROFITS,
SOCIALIZATION OF RISK.
BUT IF YOU ARE TALKING ABOUT
THE TOP 20% OR TOP 30%,
THERE I THINK YOU HAVE A
STRUCTURAL PROBLEMHAT  TED
KATED PEOPLE HAVE BECOME
REALLY GOOD AT MARRYING
OTHER EDUCATED PEOPLE AND
PASSING THEIR ADVANTAGES.
AND I DON'T THINK YOU CAN DO
MUCH ABOUT THAT.
THE REAL THING IS TO GIVE
PEOPLE WITHOUT THOSE FAMILY
BACKGROUNDS THE LEG UP.
>> NO, SOCIAL MOBILITY IS,
THAT IS WHY I THINK IT'S TWO
WINGS OF THE SAME BIRD.
SOCIAL MOBILITY IS CRUCIAL.
RIGHT NOW THE SOCIAL
MOBILITY, THAT CHANCE OF THE
UNITED STATES, OF SOMEBODY
BEING BORN AT THE BOTTOM, I
WANT TO SAY-- THE HORACIO
STORY, OF SOMEBODY COMING
FROM NOWHERE AND ACHIEVING
IS LESS AND LESS LIKELY AND
LESS AND LESS LIKELY THAT IT
IS IN OTHER ADVANCED
COUNTRIES AND THAT HAD IT
HAS BEEN HISTORICALLY.
AND THAT'S WHERE YOU HAVE TO
EXPEND THAT KIND OF EFFORT
AND CAPITOL AND ATTENTION.
AND THE PEOPLE TO GIVE THEM
THAT.
>> I DON'T THINK THERE IS SO
MUCH-- TWO WINGS OF THE SAME
BIRD BUT THE ONE POINT IS
THEY'RE BOTH WINGS ARE IN
THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY.
THE REPUBLICAN PARTY DIDN'T
HAVE WINGS.
AND SO THEY NEED A POLICY.
>> I'M TRYING TO VISUALIZE
THIS BIRD.
>> BEAUTIFUL BIRD, AN
AMERICAN EAGLE.
>> THE TWO OF YOU FLY
BEAUTIFULLY, MARK SHIELD,
DAVID BROOKS, THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
SOUTH AFRICANS CELEBRATED THE
LIFE OF NELSON MANDELA AND
MOURNED HIS PASSING.
THE GOVERNMENT SCHEDULED A
MEMORIAL SERVICE FOR TUESDAY,
WITH PRESIDENT OBAMA AND OTHER
WORLD LEADERS ATTENDING.
AND U.S. UNEMPLOYMENT DROPPED TO
7% IN NOVEMBER-- THE LOWEST
SINCE 2008-- AS EMPLOYERS ADDED
203,000 JOBS.
ON THE "NSHOUEWR" ONLINE RIGHT
NOW-- A CHALLENGE FOR STUDENTS.
WHAT WERE THE WORLD EVENTS THAT
MOST AFFECTED YOU IN 2013?
USING THE STORY-TELLING TOOL
MEOGRAPH, STUDENTS HAVE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO CREATE A
ZEITGEIST PROJECT AND WIN PRIZES
FROM OUR PARTNER, GOOGLE.
INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO ENTER ARE
ON OUR HOME PAGE.
AND MONDAY ON THE SHOW, WE'LL
HAVE A CONVERSATION WITH ROCK
LEGEND CARLOS SANTANA, BUT YOU
CAN CHECK OUT A SNEAK PREVIEW
ONLINE, WHERE HE TELLS US AN
ENDEARING STORY ABOUT THE TIME
HE SPENT WITH NELSON MANDELA.
THAT'S ON ART BEAT.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEBSITE newshour.pbs.org.
AND A REMINDER ABOUT
SOME UPCOMING PROGRAMS FROM
OUR PBS COLLEAGUES.
GWEN IFILL IS PREPARING FOR
"WASHINGTON WEEK," WHICH AIRS
LATER THIS EVENING.
HERE'S A PREVIEW:
>> GOOD ECONOMIC NEWS IN
WASHINGTON, SHAKY NEWS
AROUND THE COUNTRY.
WHICH IS REAL?
AND OUR PANELISTS REMEMBER
NELSON MANDELA THEN AND NOW.
THAT'S TONIGHT ON
"WASHINGTON WEEK", JUDY?
>> Woodruff: THE NEWS DOESN'T
STOP ON FRIDAY AND NEITHER DOES
THE "NEWSHOUR."
TUNE IN SATURDAY AND SUNDAY FOR
THE "PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND."
CHECK YOUR LOCAL LISTING FOR THE
TIME.
WHEN WE'LL CONTINUE TO REMEMBER
NELSON MANDELA.
PLUS, MARGARET WARNER REPORTS ON
ISLAMISTS IN SYRIA.
THAT'S THE "NEWSHOUR" FOR
TONIGHT.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
HAVE A NICE WEEKEND.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.